About Me(Overview):
12 Years of experience in IT industry using Microsoft Technology (.NET). An experienced, disciplined and highly-motivated Technical Lead worked on a wide range of projects in different sectors and geographical locations. An accomplished and good communicator with strong investigation, problem-solving and decision-making skills, combined with a pragmatic approach and sound business acumen. Highly accomplished with a track record in fields such as analysis and gathering, business process mapping and the development of interactive prototypes.

Roles and Responsibilities:
	Analyzing the Functional Requirement Specifications (FRS) and Additional Design Specifications (ADS) for finding any ambiguity, incompleteness or incorrectness, so that requirements are technically feasible.
	Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, Deployment and Documentation.
	Interacting with Business leads for better understanding of the current system issues.
	Impact analysis of the new requirement or change request on the existing programs initiated by the client.
	Designing New Components using COBOL and DB2 Database design Concepts.
	Updating the existing JCL’s to handle the Next Generation changes
	Performing functional testing and unit testing for batch and online programs using XPEDITER/Trace Master set up.
	Identify and verify the impact based on the changes in downstream/upstream applications.
	Prepare and review the Detailed design specification document
	Coordinating the offshore activities and providing them guidance on day to day activities.
	Performing Unit Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing and Shakeout Testing.
	Real time bug fix support during acceptance and end-to-end testing.
	Generating metrics on the performance of the system.
	Participating in Internal Audits and External Reviews.
	Involved in the implementation of these changes in production by packaging the application etc.
	Involved in warranty Support for the releases.
	Create and develop system applications utilizing standard concepts, practices and procedures.
	Work closely with other groups like product, business analyst, quality assurance, and project management resources throughout delivery of solutions
	Provide weekly status reports and time accounting
	Coordinate and implement new system installations. Perform system walk-through of technical and operational features for new or existing systems
	Mentor and support other members of the team (both on-shore and off-shore) to assist in completing tasks and meet objectives
	Monitor upcoming new development activity for potential impact to overall environment
	Create, review and approve business, functional and technical design specifications for transaction processing applications

Key Skill
	Programming Languages/Framework
	ASP.NET, .NET Core, C#, MVC Framework, Web Services, Web API 2.0, LINQ, Entity Framework, SignalR
	
	RDBMS / DBMS
	SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, SSRS, Crystal Report, Oracle 11G
	
	Client Side Technologies
	HTML/HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax
	
	Tools
	Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft office 2007/2013, Microsoft Visio 2007, Microsoft Project
	
	Other tools Used
	SVN, GIT, Runscope, Basecamp, Atlassian, Redis Cache
	
	Software Component
	Syncfusion, Shoretel, Firebase, Deepstream, Kafka, StreamSet
	
	Cloud Service
	Azure features like WebApp, Function, APIM, etc.
	

